---
layout: post
title: Switching from SVN to GIT
categories: en
tags: linux eclipse

---

Yet another post to say SVN sucks. Yes it does. But many people who use SVN are happy with it and I was happy too.

It's hard to maintain a trunk when 5 people are committing on it during the project life. So I have started to look at DVCS (git, hg, bzr). I have tried GIT because of its popularity.

At work, someone is using Mercurial (hg) and we are two people interested in GIT. So I have decided to test it but over SVN. It means the central repository is still an SVN one.

Here is the way I'm using it:

1. clone the repo (git svn clone blabla)
2. branche
3. work on your code (commit, …)
4. merge on master
5. git svn dcommit

And you get it, only one commit on the trunk (master) and the power of git to merge, commit, etc.

Some cool features and properties of git:

* space on HDD of a git clone < svn checkout (and you get the entire history)
* fast, git is damn faster than svn. When you type the enter key, you get it (except from git svn clone, because here it's svn)
* qgit2 (Qt4) is a very good tool (you can browse your svn history, look at diffs, etc.)
* the help on command line. git status gives you help for the next command you will make

But there are some points I have not found handy:

* git st mygitrepo/ doesn't work ("is not a git repo" but it is)
* no default aliases (st, co, etc.) but can be easily configured
* svn externals can be seen as submodules, but not managed in that way. git svn does not handle svn:externals and you can't use git submodules over svn
* Eclipse does not manage git (and I know it's a pain for Eclipse guys because it breaks the way the platform is thought)

I hope all these things will be improved in the future of git, but now I'm using git at work. Next step will be code review TTW.