---
title: A more simple editorial process in Plone
categories: ["en"]
tags: ["plone"]
date: 2010-02-17
---

For a project I have tried to create a simpler editorial process for Plone. To understand this you have first to know the normal editorial process of Plone:

* First you have to go to the folder where you want to add your article.
* Next you click on add an article
* You fill the form (content + categorization)
* Finally you publish your article.

Pages are created with topics to fake publication of one article in multiple sections.

Contents are stored like on a computer: inside folders.

In many projects this is a pain because the writer must first think about "where will I add this article".

So here is the idea. Remove the first step and simply use a link "add article" available anywhere in the site.

The way to achieve this is to create one “database” (large plone folder) per content type and add one action category with all “add xxx” actions + a portlet. At the moment I initialise this in policy.

Now we are able to create articles without that first step. We need to know: How to keep my tree that makes such nice URLs with Plone? Let me introduce you to the magic "acquisition" used with topics: collective.inplacetopicview.

A topic is like a persistent search done in Plone. The webmaster adds criteria, and the display is like folders but links point to the real destination where the article has been added. This adds a real issue when you add contextual theming inside Plone. The user can be very surprised if just by clicking on an article link they move outside the current context (so theme can change).

With inplacetopicview the link has a different behavior. When you click you just stay in the current context so the theme just stays the same.

There are different ways to achieve this. inplacetopicview doesn't add any new content type or whatsoever, it just adds some new views that let your visitor stay in the context of the topic but in different ways:
* With acquisition (domain.com/mytopic/articles/myarticle with myarticle real path = /myplone/articles/myarticle)
* With beautifulsoup by rendering both article and topic, and replacing the content of the topic with the content of the article.

There are some other ideas to implement in inplacetopicview like

* Ajax
* Popup

Now let's try it by installing collective.inplacetopicview and adding an initial structure with transmogrifier in your profile.

This process is not perfect but it is one first step done. For example, image content handled through wysiwyg editor needs customization. The breadcrumb shows the real path.

Let me know what you think of this process and if you have ideas to improve it.